---
title: TBIL Learning Community through MAA OPEN
date: 2026-05-14
author: Drew Lewis
---

The [MAA OPEN](https://maa.org/open-math-workshops/) program is providing a learning community on TBIL to be held this fall.  The community will meet on Tuesdays at 3 Eastern; [full dates and times are listed here](https://web.cvent.com/event/19e83c19-67a2-4de9-944c-22ce90cf5013/summary).  The registration deadline for this opportunity is July 9, 2026.

Learning community description from the MAA Page:
> Team-Based Inquiry Learning (TBIL) is a structured form of active learning that uses the scaffolding of Team-Based Learning as a means of bringing inquiry into lower division courses. Importantly, TBIL includes the four canonical “pillars” of inquiry based learning: student inquiry, collaboration, instructor inquiry, and equity. In addition, it includes the essential elements of TBL: properly formed and managed teams, accountability for the quality of individual and team work, frequent and timely feedback, and team activities that promote both learning and team development. This workshop will provide instructors with an overview of how to use TBIL in their courses, how to create TBIL-aligned lessons, and an introduction to the free and open- source TBIL Resource Library, which includes a complete set of materials for teaching Precalculus Calculus I, Calculus II, and Linear Algebra via TBIL. Specific sessions will include: Introduction to TBIL, Combining TBL and IBL, Creating TBIL Modules, Writing Multiple Choice Questions, Facilitating TBIL, and Evaluating Team Contribution. Workshop participants will also be invited to join our growing Zulip community of TBIL practitioners to receive ongoing support from fellow practitioners and workshop facilitators as they implement TBIL in their own courses. 


